[Docs] [Cloud] Pausing clusters (#11125)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-faq.md

Yugabyte Cloud supports all the regions that have robust infrastructure and sufficient demand from customers. We are continuously improving region coverage, so if there are any regions you would like us to support, reach out to [Yugabyte Support](https://support.yugabyte.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=360003113431).

## Clusters

### What are the differences between free and standard clusters?

> Use the free cluster to get started with YugabyteDB. The free cluster is limited to a single node and 10GB of storage. Although not suitable for production workloads, the cluster includes enough resources to start exploring the core features available for developing applications with YugabyteDB. Free clusters are provisioned with an [edge release](#what-version-of-yugabytedb-does-my-cluster-run-on). You can only have one free cluster. Free clusters that are inactive for 21 days are [paused](#why-is-my-cluster-paused); after 30 days they are deleted.

Reviewer: @vmallepalli Is it 21 or 14 days  of inactivity?

Yugabyte Cloud supports all the regions that have robust infrastructure and sufficient demand from customers. We are continuously improving region coverage, so if there are any regions you would like us to support, reach out to [Yugabyte Support](https://support.yugabyte.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=360003113431).

## Clusters

### What are the differences between free and standard clusters?

> Use the free cluster to get started with YugabyteDB. The free cluster is limited to a single node and 10GB of storage. Although not suitable for production workloads, the cluster includes enough resources to start exploring the core features available for developing applications with YugabyteDB. Free clusters are provisioned with an edge release, typically from the YugabyteDB [latest release series](../../releases/whats-new/latest-release/); occasional edge releases will be a recent stable release. You can only have one free cluster. Free clusters that are inactive for 21 days are [paused](#why-is-my-cluster-paused); after 30 days they are deleted.

Reviewer 2: May want to link "edge release" in this paragraph to the "What version of YugabyteDB does my cluster run on?" question down around line 92, and delete the rest of the sentence.
```suggestion
Use the free cluster to get started with YugabyteDB. The free cluster is limited to a single node and 10GB of storage. Although not suitable for production workloads, the cluster includes enough resources to start exploring the core features available for developing applications with YugabyteDB. Free clusters are provisioned with an [edge release](#). You can only have one free cluster. Free clusters that are inactive for 21 days are [paused](#why-is-my-cluster-paused); after 30 days they are deleted.
```

> Standard clusters can have unlimited nodes and storage and are suitable for production workloads. They also support horizontal and vertical scaling - nodes and storage can be added or removed to suit your production loads. Standard clusters also support VPC peering, and scheduled and manual backups. By default, standard clusters are provisioned using a recent release from the YugabyteDB [stable release series](../../releases/whats-new/stable-release/).

Reviewer 2: Same idea as previous
```suggestion
Standard clusters can have unlimited nodes and storage and are suitable for production workloads. They also support horizontal and vertical scaling - nodes and storage can be added or removed to suit your production loads. Standard clusters also support VPC peering, and scheduled and manual backups. By default, standard clusters are provisioned using a [stable release](#).
```

Currently self-service migration is not supported. Contact [Yugabyte Support](https://support.yugabyte.com/hc/en-us/requests/new?ticket_form_id=360003113431) for help with migration.

### What is the upgrade policy for clusters?

Upgrades are automatically handled by Yugabyte. There are two types of upgrades:

Cloud console
: During a maintenance window, the Yugabyte Cloud console may be in read-only mode and not allow any edit changes. The upgrade has no impact on running clusters. Customers will be notified in advance of the maintenance schedule.

> Cluster (yugabyteDB) version upgrade

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Cluster (YugabyteDB) version upgrade
```

> : To keep up with the latest bug fixes, improvements, and security fixes, Yugabyte will upgrade your cluster to the [latest version](#what-version-of-yugabytedb-does-my-cluster-run-on). We will notify you of any upcoming upgrade schedule via email.

Reviewer 2: The previous line just says notified in advance. Are both notifications email, or is this one email and the console one only in the UI? Also, should be consistent in the phrasing: "We'll notify you in advance about upcoming upgrades..."

> : The database is upgraded to the latest release in the release track that was selected when the cluster was created (either edge or stable). Free clusters are always in the edge track.

Reviewer 2: Add a link to "release track". I know it's pointing like four lines down right now, but it might point somewhere quite different, in the future...

For more details, refer to [Connect to clusters](../cloud-connect).

> ### Why is my cluster paused?

Reviewer: @ddhodge do we need to add on the cluster creation page? Can you check other products (Mongo/Datastax)?

Author: will address in a separate PR

> Free clusters are paused after 21 days of inactivity. When a cluster is paused, you receive an email notification. You can't perform any operations on a paused cluster until it is resumed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Free clusters are paused after 21 days of inactivity. When a cluster is paused, you receive an email notification. You need to resume the paused cluster before you can perform any operations on it.
```

> Free clusters are paused after 21 days of [inactivity](#what-qualifies-as-activity-on-a-cluster). When a cluster is paused, you receive an email notification. You need to resume the paused cluster before you can perform any operations on it.

Reviewer: @vmallepalli  Is it 21 or 14 days of inactivity?

> To resume using your cluster, sign in to Yugabyte Cloud, select the cluster on the **Clusters** page, and click **Resume**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To resume your cluster, sign in to Yugabyte Cloud, select the cluster on the **Clusters** page, and click **Resume**.
```

If you don't resume your cluster, a second notification is sent after 28 days of inactivity, notifying you that the cluster will be deleted in 48 hours.

Free clusters are deleted after 30 days of inactivity. Only paused clusters are deleted.

### What qualifies as activity on a cluster?

Free clusters are paused after 21 days of inactivity. To keep your cluster from being paused, you (or, where applicable, an application connected to the database) can perform any of the following actions:

- Any SELECT, UPDATE, INSERT, or DELETE database operation.

- Create or delete tables.

- Add or remove IP allow lists.

> To reactivate a cluster that is already paused, you need to sign in to Yugabyte Cloud, select the cluster on the **Clusters** page, and click **Resume**.

Reviewer 2: Might as well make this match the previous question?
```suggestion
To resume using your cluster, sign in to Yugabyte Cloud, select the cluster on the **Clusters** page, and click **Resume**.
```
